.TH BM 1 "20 April 2016" "version 1.3"

.SH NAME
bm - Bookmarks for file-system locations

.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "bm" " [" "-hl" "] [" "--cleartmp" "] [" "-s "
.IR "name"
.RB "[" "-t" "]] [" "-g "
.IR "name" "]"
.RB "[" "-l" "] [" "-r "
.IR "name" "]"
.RB "[" "-p "
.IR "name" "]"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B bm
allows to bookmark locations file-system locations.  This makes it possible to
quickly navigate to the bookmarked locations by using their bookmark name
instead of the full path.

.PP
Bookmarks are grouped into temporary and permanent bookmarks.  All temperorary
bookmarks can be deleted by using the
.B --cleartmp
option.  Permament bookmarks have to be removed individually by using the
.B --remove
option.

.SH OPTIONS

.IP "-h, --help"
Displays this help message and exits.

.IP "-s, --set"
The current working directory is saved as a bookmark.  If a
.I name
is provided, its used as the bookmark name.  Otherwise, the user is prompted to
enter the name of the new bookmark.  Existing bookmarks are overwritten without
warning.  If the
.B -t
switch is active, the bookmark is stored as a temporary bookmark, otherwise it
is stored permanently.

.IP "-g, --goto"
The current working directory is changed to the location, associated with the
specified
.IR "name" "."
If no name is provided, the user is prompted to specify the name interactively.

.IP "-l, --list"
Lists all permanent and temporary bookmarks.  Broken links are colored red.

.IP "-r, --remove"
Removes the bookmark with the specified
.IR "name" "."
If no name is provided, the user is prompted to specify the name interactively.

.IP "-p, --print"
Prints the path of the bookmarked location with the specified
.IR "name" "."
If no name is provided, the user is prompted to specify the name interactively.

.IP "-t, --tmp"
Influences the
.B -s
option.  If the
.B -t
switch is used, the bookmark is stored as a temporary bookmark, otherwise it is
stored as a permanent bookmark.

.IP "-ct, --cleartmp"
Deletes all temporary bookmarks.

.SH AUTHORS
Wolfram Reinke <wolframreinke@web.de>
