.TH SNIP 1 "20 April 2016" "version 1.0"

.SH NAME
ship - script for managing and executing shell code snippets

.SH SYNOPSIS
.BR "snip"
.RI "[" "COMMAND" "] " "PARAMETERS"

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B snip
provides quick access to small shell scripts called "snippets".  These snippets
are stored hierarchically, so that this script essentially provides convenient
namespacing for bash scripts.

.PP
If no
.I COMMAND
is provided,
.B exec
is assumed.

.SH COMMANDS

.IP help
Displays this help message and exits.

.IP add
Adds a new snippet to the snippet library.  Two parameters are required.  The
first one is the name of the local file you wish to add to the library.  The
second parameter is the new namespaced name.  Example:

        > snip add  file.sh  util/misc/file

.IP remove
Removes one or more snippets from the library.  The only parameter is the name
of the snippet to remove, or the name of the namespace.  You will be prompted to
confirm this command.  Example:

        > snip remove  util/misc   # deletes all snippets in util/misc

.IP exec
Executes a snippet.  The first parameter is the name of the targeted snippet,
all following ones are passed as parameters to the snippet.

.IP list
Lists all available snippets.  If a namespace is provided, all snippets in this
namespace are listed.

.IP with
Fixes the first part of the namespace path. Therefore,

        > snip with util exec misc/file

executes the snippet util/misc/file.  This is useful if you want to give certain
namespaces a bash alias, e.g.

        > alias session='snip with sessions'

allows you to use

        > session haskell

directly, without having to type the namespace path.

.SH AUTHORS
Wolfram Reinke <WolframReinke@web.de>
